.gitlab/issue_templates/Security developer workflow.md, before:

<!--
# Read me first!

Create this issue under https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security/omnibus-gitlab/

Set the title to: `Description of the original issue`
-->

### Prior to starting the security release work

- [ ] Read the [security process for developers] if you are not familiar with it.
- [ ] Link to the original issue adding it to the [links section](#links)
- [ ] Run `scripts/security-harness` to prevent pushing to any remote besides `security/omnibus-gitlab`
- [ ] Create a new branch prefixing it with `security-`
- [ ] Create a MR targeting `master` on [`security/omnibus-gitlab`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security/omnibus-gitlab)
- [ ] Add a link to this issue in the original security issue on `gitlab.com`.

#### Backports

- [ ] Once the MR is ready to be merged, create MRs targeting the last 3 releases, plus the current RC if between the 7th and 22nd of the month.
    - [ ] At this point, it might be easy to squash the commits from the MR into one
    - You can use the script `bin/secpick` instead of the following steps, to help you cherry-picking. See the [secpick documentation]
    - [ ] Create each MR targeting the stable branch `X-Y-stable`, using the "Security Release" merge request template.
    - Every merge request will have its own set of TODOs, so make sure to
      complete those.
- [ ] Make sure all MRs have a link in the [links section](#links)

#### Documentation and final details

- [ ] Check the topic on #releases to see when the next release is going to happen and add a link next to **Security Release Tracking issue** in the [links section](#links)
- [ ] Add links to this issue and your MRs in the description of the security release issue
- [ ] Find out the versions affected (the Git history of the files affected may help you with this) and add them to the [details section](#details)
- [ ] Fill in any upgrade notes that users may need to take into account in the [details section](#details)
- [ ] Add Yes/No and further details if needed to the migration and settings columns in the [details section](#details)
- [ ] Add the nickname of the external user who found the issue (and/or HackerOne profile) to the Thanks row in the [details section](#details)
- [ ] Once your `master` MR is merged, comment on the original security issue with a link to that MR indicating the issue is fixed.

### Summary

#### Links

| Description | Link |
| -------- | -------- |
| Original issue   | #TODO  |
| Security Release tracking issue | #TODO  |
| `master` MR | !TODO   |
| `Backport X.Y` MR | !TODO   |
| `Backport X.Y` MR | !TODO   |
| `Backport X.Y` MR | !TODO   |

#### Details

| Description | Details | Further details|
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| Versions affected | X.Y  | |
| Upgrade notes | | |
| GitLab Settings updated | Yes/No| |
| Migration required | Yes/No | |
| Thanks | | |

[security process for developers]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/release/docs/blob/master/general/security/developer.md
[secpick documentation]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/release/docs/blob/master/general/security/developer.md#secpick-script
[RM list]:  https://about.gitlab.com/release-managers/

/label ~security

Commit message:

Modify security templates to be similar to GitLab
Modifies security issue and merge request templates to be similar to the
ones on GitLab.

Related to gitlab-com/gl-infra/delivery#692

.gitlab/issue_templates/Security developer workflow.md, after:

<!--
# Read me first!

Create this issue under https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security/omnibus-gitlab/

Set the title to: `Description of the original issue`
-->

### Prior to starting the security release work

- [ ] Read the [security process for developers] if you are not familiar with it.
- [ ] Mark this [issue as related] to the Security Release tracking issue. You can find it on the topic of the `#releases` Slack channel.
- [ ] Run `scripts/security-harness` to prevent pushing to any remote besides `security/omnibus-gitlab` and `dev.gitlab.org/gitlab/omnibus-gitlab`
- Fill out the [Links section](#links):
  - [ ] Next to **Issue on Omnibus GitLab**, add a link to the `gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab` issue that describes the security vulnerability.
  - [ ] Next to **Security Release tracking issue**, add a link to the security release issue that will include this security issue.

### Development

- [ ] Create a new branch prefixing it with `security-`
- [ ] Create a MR targeting `master` on [`security/omnibus-gitlab`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security/omnibus-gitlab) and use the [Security Release merge request template]
- [ ] Follow the same code review process: Assign to a reviewer, then to a maintainer.

After your merge request has been approved according to our approval guidelines, you're ready to prepare the backports

#### Backports

- [ ] Once the MR is ready to be merged, create MRs targeting the latest 3 stable branches
   * At this point, it might be easy to squash the commits from the MR into one
- [ ] Create each MR targeting the stable branch `X-Y-stable`, using the [Security Release merge request template].
   * Every merge request will have its own set of TODOs, so make sure to complete those.
- [ ] On the "Related merge requests" section, ensure all MRs are linked to this issue.
   * This section should only list the merge requests created for this issue: One targeting `master` and the 3 backports.

#### Documentation and final details

- [ ] Ensure the [Links section](#links) is completed.
- [ ] Find out the versions affected (the Git history of the files affected may help you with this) and add them to the [details section](#details)
- [ ] Fill in any upgrade notes that users may need to take into account in the [details section](#details)
- [ ] Add Yes/No and further details if needed to the migration and settings columns in the [details section](#details)
- [ ] Add the nickname of the external user who found the issue (and/or HackerOne profile) to the Thanks row in the [details section](#details)
- [ ] Once your `master` MR is merged, comment on the original security issue with a link to that MR indicating the issue is fixed.

### Summary

#### Links

| Description | Link |
| -------- | -------- |
| Issue on [Omnibus GitLab](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/issues) | #TODO  |
| Security Release tracking issue | #TODO  |

#### Details

| Description | Details | Further details|
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| Versions affected | X.Y  | |
| Upgrade notes | | |
| GitLab Settings updated | Yes/No| |
| Migration required | Yes/No | |
| Thanks | | |

[security process for developers]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/release/docs/blob/master/general/security/developer.md
[RM list]:  https://about.gitlab.com/release-managers/
[issue as related]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/issues/related_issues.html#adding-a-related-issue
[security Release merge request template]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/blob/master/.gitlab/merge_request_templates/Security%20Release.md

/label ~security
