doc/manual_install.md, before:

# Manually Downloading and Installing a GitLab Package

## The package repository is recommended over a manual install

We recommend downloading and installing GitLab using the official [package repository](https://about.gitlab.com/install/). If you prefer, you can download and install an Omnibus GitLab package manually below.

## Requirements

Before installing GitLab, it is of critical importance to review the system [requirements](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/install/requirements.html). The system requirements include details on the minimum hardware, software, database, and additional requirements to support GitLab.

## Downloading a GitLab Package

All GitLab packages are posted to our [package server](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/) and can be downloaded. We maintain five repos:

- [GitLab EE](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/gitlab-ee): for official Enterprise Edition releases
- [GitLab CE](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/gitlab-ce): for official Community Edition releases
- [Unstable](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/unstable): for release candidates and other unstable versions
- [Nighty Builds](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/nightly-builds): for nightly builds
- [Raspberry Pi 2](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/raspberry-pi2): for [Raspberry Pi 2](https://www.raspberrypi.org) packages

Browse to the repository for the type of package you would like, in order to see the list of packages that are available. There are multiple packages for a single version, one for each supported distribution type. Next to the filename is a label indicating the distribution, as the file names may be the same.

![Package Listing](img/package_list.png)

Locate the desired package for the version and distribution you want to use, and click on the filename to download.

## Installing the GitLab Package

With the desired package downloaded, use your systems package management tool to install it. For example:

- DEB based (Ubuntu, Debian, Raspberry Pi): `sudo EXTERNAL_URL="http://gitlab.example.com" dpkg -i gitlab-ee-9.5.2-ee.0_amd64.deb`
- RPM based (CentOS, RHEL, Oracle, Scientific, openSUSE, SLES): `sudo EXTERNAL_URL="http://gitlab.example.com" rpm -i gitlab-ee-9.5.2-ee.0.el7.x86_64.rpm`

Change `http://gitlab.example.com` to the URL at which you want to access your GitLab instance. Installation will automatically configure and start GitLab at that URL.

> **Note:** Enabling HTTPS will require [additional configuration](settings/nginx.md#enable-https) to specify the certificates.

## Browse to the hostname and login

On your first visit, you'll be redirected to a password reset screen. Provide the password for the initial administrator account and you will be redirected back to the login screen. Use the default account's username `root` to login.

See our [documentation for detailed instructions on installing and configuration](installation/index.md#installation-and-configuration).

Commit message:

Add metadata to documentation pages
Add stage and group ownership metadata to documentation pages for
an upcoming content audit.

doc/manual_install.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#designated-technical-writers
---

# Manually Downloading and Installing a GitLab Package

## The package repository is recommended over a manual install

We recommend downloading and installing GitLab using the official [package repository](https://about.gitlab.com/install/). If you prefer, you can download and install an Omnibus GitLab package manually below.

## Requirements

Before installing GitLab, it is of critical importance to review the system [requirements](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/install/requirements.html). The system requirements include details on the minimum hardware, software, database, and additional requirements to support GitLab.

## Downloading a GitLab Package

All GitLab packages are posted to our [package server](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/) and can be downloaded. We maintain five repos:

- [GitLab EE](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/gitlab-ee): for official Enterprise Edition releases
- [GitLab CE](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/gitlab-ce): for official Community Edition releases
- [Unstable](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/unstable): for release candidates and other unstable versions
- [Nighty Builds](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/nightly-builds): for nightly builds
- [Raspberry Pi 2](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/raspberry-pi2): for [Raspberry Pi 2](https://www.raspberrypi.org) packages

Browse to the repository for the type of package you would like, in order to see the list of packages that are available. There are multiple packages for a single version, one for each supported distribution type. Next to the filename is a label indicating the distribution, as the file names may be the same.

![Package Listing](img/package_list.png)

Locate the desired package for the version and distribution you want to use, and click on the filename to download.

## Installing the GitLab Package

With the desired package downloaded, use your systems package management tool to install it. For example:

- DEB based (Ubuntu, Debian, Raspberry Pi): `sudo EXTERNAL_URL="http://gitlab.example.com" dpkg -i gitlab-ee-9.5.2-ee.0_amd64.deb`
- RPM based (CentOS, RHEL, Oracle, Scientific, openSUSE, SLES): `sudo EXTERNAL_URL="http://gitlab.example.com" rpm -i gitlab-ee-9.5.2-ee.0.el7.x86_64.rpm`

Change `http://gitlab.example.com` to the URL at which you want to access your GitLab instance. Installation will automatically configure and start GitLab at that URL.

> **Note:** Enabling HTTPS will require [additional configuration](settings/nginx.md#enable-https) to specify the certificates.

## Browse to the hostname and login

On your first visit, you'll be redirected to a password reset screen. Provide the password for the initial administrator account and you will be redirected back to the login screen. Use the default account's username `root` to login.

See our [documentation for detailed instructions on installing and configuration](installation/index.md#installation-and-configuration).
