doc/development/setup.md, before:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#designated-technical-writers
---

# Setting up your development environment

Development of Omnibus GitLab maybe done using an existing package available
from [Downloads page](https://about.gitlab.com/install/). To know how to setup
a build environment to build these packages and use them, please read [Setting
up a Build Environment](../build/prepare-build-environment.md).

1. Set up a container

   To provide isolation and to prevent rebuilding of the package for each and
   every change, it is preferred to use a Container for development. The
   following example uses Docker on a Debian host with a Debian Jessie image.
   The steps are similar for other OSs; only the commands differ.

   1. Install Docker for your OS as per [official Docker installation docs](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

   1. Pulling a Debian Jessie image

      ```shell
      docker pull debian:jessie
      ```

   1. Running Docker image with a shell prompt

      ```shell
      docker run -it debian:jessie bash
      ```

      This will cause the Docker to run the jessie image and you will fall into a
      bash prompt, where the following steps are applied to.

1. Install basic necessary tools

   Basic tools used for developing Omnibus GitLab may be installed using the
   following command

   ```shell
   sudo apt-get install git
   ```

1. Getting GitLab CE nightly package and installing it

   Get the latest GitLab CE nightly package (of the OS you are using) from
   [Nightly Build repository](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/nightly-builds)
   and install it using the instructions given on that page. Once you configure
   and start GitLab. Check if you can access it from your host browser on
   `<ip address of host>`.

   **`Note`**: Nightly packages versioning is incorrect which can cause a
   confusion. This [issue is reported in #864](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/issues/864).
   For the time being, consider the date of pushing (which is available next
   to the package name in the repository page) to find the latest package version.

1. Getting source of Omnibus GitLab

   Get the source code of Omnibus GitLab from the [repository on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab)

   ```shell
   git clone https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab.git ~/omnibus-gitlab
   ```

   We will be doing the development inside the `~/omnibus-gitlab` directory.

1. Instructing GitLab to apply the changes we make to the cookbooks.

   During development, we need the changes we make to the cookbooks to be
   applied immediately to the running GitLab instance. So, we have to instruct
   GitLab to use those cookbooks instead of the ones shipped during
   installation. This involves backing up of the existing cookbooks directory
   and symlinking the directory where we make modifications to its location.

   ```shell
   sudo mv /opt/gitlab/embedded/cookbooks/gitlab /opt/gitlab/embedded/cookbooks/gitlab.$(date +%s)
   sudo ln -s ~/omnibus-gitlab/files/gitlab-cookbooks/gitlab /opt/gitlab/embedded/cookbooks/gitlab
   ```

1. Docker container specific items

   Before running `reconfigure`, you need to start runsv.

   ```shell
   /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/runsvdir-start &
   ```

   After running `reconfigure`, you may have sysctl errors. There is a workaround in the [common installation problems doc](../common_installation_problems/README.md#failed-to-modify-kernel-parameters-with-sysctl).

Now, you can make necessary changes in the
`~/omnibus-gitlab/files/gitlab-cookbooks/gitlab` folder and run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure`
for those changes to take effect.

## Run GitLab QA Against Your Development Environment

You can run [GitLab QA](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-qa) tests against your development instance.

This ensures that your new work is behaving as expected, and not breaking anything else. You can even add your own tests to QA to validate what you are working on.

1. Create a user account on your development instance for GitLab QA to use

   Then, from any machine that can reach your development instance:

1. Clone the [GitLab EE](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab) repository

   ```shell
   git clone git@gitlab.com:gitlab-org/gitlab.git
   ```

1. Change to the `qa` directory

   ```shell
   cd gitlab-ee/qa
   ```

1. Install the required gems

   ```shell
   bundle install
   ```

1. Run the tests

   ```shell
   GITLAB_USERNAME=$USERNAME GITLAB_PASSWORD=$PASSWORD bundle exec bin/qa Test::Instance $DEV_INSTANCE_URL
   ```

## OpenShift GitLab Development Setup

See Omnibus GitLab [development setup](openshift/README.md) documentation.

Commit message:

Update setup.md Adding note about https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/issues/4679

doc/development/setup.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#designated-technical-writers
---

# Setting up your development environment

Development of Omnibus GitLab maybe done using an existing package available
from [Downloads page](https://about.gitlab.com/install/). To know how to setup
a build environment to build these packages and use them, please read [Setting
up a Build Environment](../build/prepare-build-environment.md).

1. Set up a container

   To provide isolation and to prevent rebuilding of the package for each and
   every change, it is preferred to use a Container for development. The
   following example uses Docker on a Debian host with a Debian Jessie image.
   The steps are similar for other OSs; only the commands differ.

   1. Install Docker for your OS as per [official Docker installation docs](https://docs.docker.com/install/).

   1. Pulling a Debian Jessie image

      ```shell
      docker pull debian:jessie
      ```

   1. Running Docker image with a shell prompt

      ```shell
      docker run -it debian:jessie bash
      ```

      This will cause the Docker to run the jessie image and you will fall into a
      bash prompt, where the following steps are applied to.

1. Install basic necessary tools

   Basic tools used for developing Omnibus GitLab may be installed using the
   following command

   ```shell
   sudo apt-get install git
   ```

1. Getting GitLab CE nightly package and installing it

   Get the latest GitLab CE nightly package (of the OS you are using) from
   [Nightly Build repository](https://packages.gitlab.com/gitlab/nightly-builds)
   and install it using the instructions given on that page. Once you configure
   and start GitLab. Check if you can access it from your host browser on
   `<ip address of host>`.

   **`Note`**: Nightly packages versioning is incorrect which can cause a
   confusion. This [issue is reported in #864](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/issues/864).
   For the time being, consider the date of pushing (which is available next
   to the package name in the repository page) to find the latest package version.

   NOTE: **Note:**
   On Ubuntu Xenial, you may have to install tzdata. This
   [issue is reported in #4769](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/issues/4679).

1. Getting source of Omnibus GitLab

   Get the source code of Omnibus GitLab from the [repository on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab)

   ```shell
   git clone https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab.git ~/omnibus-gitlab
   ```

   We will be doing the development inside the `~/omnibus-gitlab` directory.

1. Instructing GitLab to apply the changes we make to the cookbooks.

   During development, we need the changes we make to the cookbooks to be
   applied immediately to the running GitLab instance. So, we have to instruct
   GitLab to use those cookbooks instead of the ones shipped during
   installation. This involves backing up of the existing cookbooks directory
   and symlinking the directory where we make modifications to its location.

   ```shell
   sudo mv /opt/gitlab/embedded/cookbooks/gitlab /opt/gitlab/embedded/cookbooks/gitlab.$(date +%s)
   sudo ln -s ~/omnibus-gitlab/files/gitlab-cookbooks/gitlab /opt/gitlab/embedded/cookbooks/gitlab
   ```

1. Docker container specific items

   Before running `reconfigure`, you need to start runsv.

   ```shell
   /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/runsvdir-start &
   ```

   After running `reconfigure`, you may have sysctl errors. There is a workaround in the [common installation problems doc](../common_installation_problems/README.md#failed-to-modify-kernel-parameters-with-sysctl).

Now, you can make necessary changes in the
`~/omnibus-gitlab/files/gitlab-cookbooks/gitlab` folder and run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure`
for those changes to take effect.

## Run GitLab QA Against Your Development Environment

You can run [GitLab QA](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-qa) tests against your development instance.

This ensures that your new work is behaving as expected, and not breaking anything else. You can even add your own tests to QA to validate what you are working on.

1. Create a user account on your development instance for GitLab QA to use

   Then, from any machine that can reach your development instance:

1. Clone the [GitLab EE](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab) repository

   ```shell
   git clone git@gitlab.com:gitlab-org/gitlab.git
   ```

1. Change to the `qa` directory

   ```shell
   cd gitlab-ee/qa
   ```

1. Install the required gems

   ```shell
   bundle install
   ```

1. Run the tests

   ```shell
   GITLAB_USERNAME=$USERNAME GITLAB_PASSWORD=$PASSWORD bundle exec bin/qa Test::Instance $DEV_INSTANCE_URL
   ```

## OpenShift GitLab Development Setup

See Omnibus GitLab [development setup](openshift/README.md) documentation.
