doc/package-information/signed_packages.md, before:

# Package Signatures

As of the release of GitLab 9.5 on August 22, 2017, GitLab provides signed Omnibus GitLab packages for RPM and DEB based distributions. This means that all packages provided on <https://packages.gitlab.com> are signed, starting with `9.5.0`, and all future versions of supported branches (e.g. `9.3.x` and `9.4.x` after August 22, 2017). Any package version prior to August 22, 2017, will not be signed. Please pass the appropriate argument to your package manager. (Example: `yum --nogpgcheck`)

Omnibus GitLab packages produced by GitLab are created via the [Omnibus](https://github.com/chef/omnibus) tool, for which GitLab has added DEB signing via `debsigs` in [our own fork](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus). This addition, combined with the existing functionality of RPM signing, allows GitLab to provide signed packages for all supported distributions using DEB or RPM.

These packages are produced by the GitLab CI process, as found in the  [Omnibus GitLab project](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml), prior to their delivery to <https://packages.gitlab.com> to ensure provide assurance that the packages are not altered prior to delivery to our community.

## GnuPG Public Keys

All packages are signed with [GnuPG](https://www.gnupg.org/), in a method appropriate for their format. The key used to sign these packages can be found on [pgp.mit.edu](https://pgp.mit.edu) at [0x3cfcf9baf27eab47](https://pgp.mit.edu/pks/lookup?op=vindex&search=0x3CFCF9BAF27EAB47)

## Verifying Signatures

Information on how to verify GitLab package signatures can be found in [Package Signatures](../update/package_signatures.md).

## GPG Signature Management

Information on how GitLab manages GPG keys for package signing can be found in [the runbooks](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/runbooks/blob/master/howto/manage-package-signing-keys.md).

Commit message:

Add metadata to documentation pages
Add stage and group ownership metadata to documentation pages for
an upcoming content audit.

doc/package-information/signed_packages.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#designated-technical-writers
---

# Package Signatures

As of the release of GitLab 9.5 on August 22, 2017, GitLab provides signed Omnibus GitLab packages for RPM and DEB based distributions. This means that all packages provided on <https://packages.gitlab.com> are signed, starting with `9.5.0`, and all future versions of supported branches (e.g. `9.3.x` and `9.4.x` after August 22, 2017). Any package version prior to August 22, 2017, will not be signed. Please pass the appropriate argument to your package manager. (Example: `yum --nogpgcheck`)

Omnibus GitLab packages produced by GitLab are created via the [Omnibus](https://github.com/chef/omnibus) tool, for which GitLab has added DEB signing via `debsigs` in [our own fork](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus). This addition, combined with the existing functionality of RPM signing, allows GitLab to provide signed packages for all supported distributions using DEB or RPM.

These packages are produced by the GitLab CI process, as found in the  [Omnibus GitLab project](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml), prior to their delivery to <https://packages.gitlab.com> to ensure provide assurance that the packages are not altered prior to delivery to our community.

## GnuPG Public Keys

All packages are signed with [GnuPG](https://www.gnupg.org/), in a method appropriate for their format. The key used to sign these packages can be found on [pgp.mit.edu](https://pgp.mit.edu) at [0x3cfcf9baf27eab47](https://pgp.mit.edu/pks/lookup?op=vindex&search=0x3CFCF9BAF27EAB47)

## Verifying Signatures

Information on how to verify GitLab package signatures can be found in [Package Signatures](../update/package_signatures.md).

## GPG Signature Management

Information on how GitLab manages GPG keys for package signing can be found in [the runbooks](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/runbooks/blob/master/howto/manage-package-signing-keys.md).
