doc/settings/environment-variables.md, before:

# Setting custom environment variables

If necessary you can set custom environment variables to be used by Unicorn,
Sidekiq, Rails and Rake via `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`.  This can be useful in
situations where you need to use a proxy to access the internet and need to
clone externally hosted repositories directly into GitLab.  In
`/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` supply a `gitlab_rails['env']` with a hash value. For
example:

```ruby
gitlab_rails['env'] = {
    "http_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "https_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080"
#    "no_proxy" => ".yourdomain.com"  # Wildcard syntax if you need your internal domain to bypass proxy
}
```

You can also override environment variables from other GitLab components which
might be required if you are behind a proxy:

```ruby
# Needed for proxying Git clones
gitaly['env'] = {
    "http_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "https_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "no_proxy" => "unix"  # Workaround for https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/issues/1447
}

gitlab_workhorse['env'] = {
    "http_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "https_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080"
}

# If you use the docker registry
registry['env'] = {
    "http_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "https_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080"
}
```

NOTE: **Note:** The `no_proxy` entry for Gitaly is needed in GitLab 11.6
and newer if a proxy is defined and Gitaly is listening on a UNIX
socket, which it is by default. It appears to be a limitation in the
gRPC client library. See [the Gitaly
issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/issues/1447) for more
details.

NOTE: **Note:** GitLab 11.6 and newer will attempt to use HTTP Basic
Authentication when a username and password is included in the proxy
URL. Older GitLab versions will omit the authentication details.

NOTE: **Note:** Proxy settings use the `.` syntax for globing.

NOTE: **Note:** Proxy URL values should generally be `http://` only, unless
your proxy has its own SSL certificate and SSL enabled. This means, even for
the `https_proxy` value, you should usually specify a value as
`http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080`.

## Applying the changes

Any change made to the environment variables **requires a hard restart** after
reconfigure for it to take effect.

NOTE: **Note**: During a hard restart, your GitLab instance will be down until the
services are back up.

So, after editing `gitlab.rb` file, run the following commands

```shell
sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure
sudo gitlab-ctl restart
```

Commit message:

Adds documentation note about updating env vars for puma

doc/settings/environment-variables.md, after:

# Setting custom environment variables

If necessary you can set custom environment variables to be used by Unicorn,
Sidekiq, Rails and Rake via `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`.  This can be useful in
situations where you need to use a proxy to access the internet and need to
clone externally hosted repositories directly into GitLab.  In
`/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` supply a `gitlab_rails['env']` with a hash value. For
example:

```ruby
gitlab_rails['env'] = {
    "http_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "https_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080"
#    "no_proxy" => ".yourdomain.com"  # Wildcard syntax if you need your internal domain to bypass proxy
}
```

You can also override environment variables from other GitLab components which
might be required if you are behind a proxy:

```ruby
# Needed for proxying Git clones
gitaly['env'] = {
    "http_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "https_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "no_proxy" => "unix"  # Workaround for https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/issues/1447
}

gitlab_workhorse['env'] = {
    "http_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "https_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080"
}

# If you use the docker registry
registry['env'] = {
    "http_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080",
    "https_proxy" => "http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080"
}
```

NOTE: **Note:** The `no_proxy` entry for Gitaly is needed in GitLab 11.6
and newer if a proxy is defined and Gitaly is listening on a UNIX
socket, which it is by default. It appears to be a limitation in the
gRPC client library. See [the Gitaly
issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/issues/1447) for more
details.

NOTE: **Note:** GitLab 11.6 and newer will attempt to use HTTP Basic
Authentication when a username and password is included in the proxy
URL. Older GitLab versions will omit the authentication details.

NOTE: **Note:** Proxy settings use the `.` syntax for globing.

NOTE: **Note:** Proxy URL values should generally be `http://` only, unless
your proxy has its own SSL certificate and SSL enabled. This means, even for
the `https_proxy` value, you should usually specify a value as
`http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@example.com:8080`.

## Applying the changes

Any change made to the environment variables **requires a hard restart** after
reconfigure for it to take effect.

NOTE: **Note**: During a hard restart, your GitLab instance will be down until the
services are back up.

For configurations where Unicorn is enabled, after editing the `gitlab.rb` file run
the following commands:

```shell
sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure
sudo gitlab-ctl restart
```

For configurations where Puma is enabled, only a reconfigure is necessary since
reconfigure will issue a full restart:

```shell
sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure
```
