doc/settings/grafana.md, before:

# Grafana Dashboard Service

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/issues/3487) in GitLab 11.9.

[Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is a powerful dashboard building system that
you can use to visualize performance metrics from the [embedded Prometheus](prometheus.md)
monitoring system.

Starting with GitLab 12.0, Grafana is enabled by default and SSO with GitLab is
automatically configured. Grafana will be available on `https://gitlab.example.com/-/grafana`.

## Enable login using username and password

Logging in to Grafana using username/password combo is disabled , and only
GitLab SSO is available by default. However, to access the admin account, you
need to enable login using username/password. For that, add the following line
to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure):

```ruby
grafana['disable_login_form'] = false
```

## Specifying an admin password

NOTE: **Note:**
The admin password must be specified before the first reconfigure after
installation. After this, the `admin_password` setting doesn't have any effect,
and you'll have to [reset the password manually](#resetting-the-admin-password).
Also, to access the admin account, you have to [enable login using username and password](#enable-login-using-username-and-password).

To specify an admin password, add the following line to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`
file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure):

```ruby
grafana['admin_password'] = 'foobar'
```

If no admin password is provided, Omnibus GitLab will automatically generate a
random password for the admin user as a security measure. However, in that case
you will have to [reset the password manually](#resetting-the-admin-password)
to access the admin user.

## Disabling Grafana

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add/edit the following lines:

   ```ruby
   ## Set to true/false to enable/disable respectively
   grafana['enable'] = false
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure) GitLab for the changes to take effect.

## Authentication

If you want to give a user access to Grafana, you have two options.

### Using Grafana's authentication system

To allow users to create their own accounts in Grafana:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add the following lines:

   ```ruby
   grafana['allow_user_sign_up'] = true
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure) GitLab for the changes to take effect.

### Using GitLab as an OAuth provider

NOTE: **Note:**
If you're using GitLab 12.0 or later, this is automatically configured. You
can skip this section.

To use GitLab as an OAuth provider so that users of your GitLab instance
have access to Grafana:

1. First, [create an application ID and secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html).

1. Set the callback URL based on your `external_url`. For example `https://gitlab.example.com/-/grafana/login/gitlab`.

1. Then, edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add the following lines:

   ```ruby
   grafana['gitlab_application_id'] = 'GITLAB_APPLICATION_ID'
   grafana['gitlab_secret'] = 'GITLAB_SECRET'
   ```

   Where `GITLAB_APPLICATION_ID` and `GITLAB_SECRET` the application ID and its
   secret that you created in the previous step.

1. Optionally, you can select a list of GitLab groups allowed to login:

   ```ruby
   grafana['allowed_groups'] = [my_group, group_one/group_two]
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure) GitLab for the changes to take effect.

NOTE: **Note:**
GitLab users are created with read-only Viewer privilege by default. The admin account must be used to grant additional access.

### Resetting the admin password

After the first startup, the admin password is stored in the Grafana datastore
and you cannot change it via `gitlab.rb`.

To update it, you can use the following command:

```shell
gitlab-ctl set-grafana-password
```

See the [Grafana CLI documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/cli/#reset-admin-password)
for more information.

## Dashboards

Starting with [GitLab 11.10](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/issues/4180), dashboards for monitoring Omnibus GitLab will be pre-loaded and available on initial login.

For earlier versions of GitLab, you can manually import the
[pre-built dashboards](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/grafana-dashboards/tree/master/omnibus)
that are tailored for Omnibus installations.

## Grafana metrics

Grafana can provide [metrics to be scraped by Prometheus](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/metrics/).

By default, the metrics API is disabled in the bundled Grafana instance.

### Enabling Grafana's metrics API

To enable Grafana's metrics API with basic authentication:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add/edit the following lines:

   ```ruby
   grafana['metrics_enabled'] = true
   grafana['metrics_basic_auth_username'] = 'grafana_metrics'
   grafana['metrics_basic_auth_password'] = 'please_set_a_unique_password'
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure) GitLab for the changes to take effect.

1. The metrics will be available at `https://gitlab.example.com/-/grafana/metrics`
   with basic authentication. The username and password for basic authentication
   will be the `metrics_basic_auth_username` and `metrics_basic_auth_password`
   that was set in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`.

Commit message:

Add metadata to documentation pages
Add stage and group ownership metadata to documentation pages for
an upcoming content audit.

doc/settings/grafana.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#designated-technical-writers
---

# Grafana Dashboard Service

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/issues/3487) in GitLab 11.9.

[Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is a powerful dashboard building system that
you can use to visualize performance metrics from the [embedded Prometheus](prometheus.md)
monitoring system.

Starting with GitLab 12.0, Grafana is enabled by default and SSO with GitLab is
automatically configured. Grafana will be available on `https://gitlab.example.com/-/grafana`.

## Enable login using username and password

Logging in to Grafana using username/password combo is disabled , and only
GitLab SSO is available by default. However, to access the admin account, you
need to enable login using username/password. For that, add the following line
to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure):

```ruby
grafana['disable_login_form'] = false
```

## Specifying an admin password

NOTE: **Note:**
The admin password must be specified before the first reconfigure after
installation. After this, the `admin_password` setting doesn't have any effect,
and you'll have to [reset the password manually](#resetting-the-admin-password).
Also, to access the admin account, you have to [enable login using username and password](#enable-login-using-username-and-password).

To specify an admin password, add the following line to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`
file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure):

```ruby
grafana['admin_password'] = 'foobar'
```

If no admin password is provided, Omnibus GitLab will automatically generate a
random password for the admin user as a security measure. However, in that case
you will have to [reset the password manually](#resetting-the-admin-password)
to access the admin user.

## Disabling Grafana

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add/edit the following lines:

   ```ruby
   ## Set to true/false to enable/disable respectively
   grafana['enable'] = false
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure) GitLab for the changes to take effect.

## Authentication

If you want to give a user access to Grafana, you have two options.

### Using Grafana's authentication system

To allow users to create their own accounts in Grafana:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add the following lines:

   ```ruby
   grafana['allow_user_sign_up'] = true
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure) GitLab for the changes to take effect.

### Using GitLab as an OAuth provider

NOTE: **Note:**
If you're using GitLab 12.0 or later, this is automatically configured. You
can skip this section.

To use GitLab as an OAuth provider so that users of your GitLab instance
have access to Grafana:

1. First, [create an application ID and secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html).

1. Set the callback URL based on your `external_url`. For example `https://gitlab.example.com/-/grafana/login/gitlab`.

1. Then, edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add the following lines:

   ```ruby
   grafana['gitlab_application_id'] = 'GITLAB_APPLICATION_ID'
   grafana['gitlab_secret'] = 'GITLAB_SECRET'
   ```

   Where `GITLAB_APPLICATION_ID` and `GITLAB_SECRET` the application ID and its
   secret that you created in the previous step.

1. Optionally, you can select a list of GitLab groups allowed to login:

   ```ruby
   grafana['allowed_groups'] = [my_group, group_one/group_two]
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure) GitLab for the changes to take effect.

NOTE: **Note:**
GitLab users are created with read-only Viewer privilege by default. The admin account must be used to grant additional access.

### Resetting the admin password

After the first startup, the admin password is stored in the Grafana datastore
and you cannot change it via `gitlab.rb`.

To update it, you can use the following command:

```shell
gitlab-ctl set-grafana-password
```

See the [Grafana CLI documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/cli/#reset-admin-password)
for more information.

## Dashboards

Starting with [GitLab 11.10](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/issues/4180), dashboards for monitoring Omnibus GitLab will be pre-loaded and available on initial login.

For earlier versions of GitLab, you can manually import the
[pre-built dashboards](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/grafana-dashboards/tree/master/omnibus)
that are tailored for Omnibus installations.

## Grafana metrics

Grafana can provide [metrics to be scraped by Prometheus](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/metrics/).

By default, the metrics API is disabled in the bundled Grafana instance.

### Enabling Grafana's metrics API

To enable Grafana's metrics API with basic authentication:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and add/edit the following lines:

   ```ruby
   grafana['metrics_enabled'] = true
   grafana['metrics_basic_auth_username'] = 'grafana_metrics'
   grafana['metrics_basic_auth_password'] = 'please_set_a_unique_password'
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/restart_gitlab.html#omnibus-gitlab-reconfigure) GitLab for the changes to take effect.

1. The metrics will be available at `https://gitlab.example.com/-/grafana/metrics`
   with basic authentication. The username and password for basic authentication
   will be the `metrics_basic_auth_username` and `metrics_basic_auth_password`
   that was set in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`.
