doc/settings/redis.md, before:

# Configuring Redis

## Running Redis on the application server

### Using an alternate local Redis Instance

Omnibus GitLab provides an instance of Redis by default. Administrators who
wish to point the GitLab application at their own ***locally*** running Redis
instance should make the following changes in `gitlab.rb`. Run
`gitlab-ctl reconfigure` for the changes to take effect.

```ruby
redis['enable'] = false

# Redis via TCP
gitlab_rails['redis_host'] = '127.0.0.1'
gitlab_rails['redis_port'] = 6379

# OR Redis via Unix domain sockets
gitlab_rails['redis_socket'] = '/tmp/redis.sock' # defaults to /var/opt/gitlab/redis/redis.socket

# Password to Authenticate to alternate local Redis if required
gitlab_rails['redis_password'] = 'Redis Password'
```

### Making a bundled Redis instance reachable via TCP

Use the following settings if you want to make one of the Redis instances
managed by Omnibus GitLab reachable via TCP.

```ruby
redis['port'] = 6379
redis['bind'] = '127.0.0.1'
```

## Setting up a Redis-only server

If you'd like to setup a separate Redis server (e.g. in the case of scaling
issues) for use with GitLab you can do so using GitLab Omnibus.

### Setting up the Redis Node

> **Note:** Redis does not require authentication by default. See
> [Redis Security](https://redis.io/topics/security) documentation for more
> information. We recommend using a combination of a Redis password and tight
> firewall rules to secure your Redis service.

1. Download/install GitLab Omnibus using **steps 1 and 2** from
   [GitLab downloads](https://about.gitlab.com/install/). Do not complete other
   steps on the download page.
1. Create/edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and use the following configuration.

   ```ruby
   # Disable all services except Redis
   redis_master_role['enable'] = true

   # Redis configuration
   redis['port'] = 6379
   redis['bind'] = '0.0.0.0'

   # If you wish to use Redis authentication (recommended)
   redis['password'] = 'Redis Password'

   # Disable automatic database migrations
   #   Only the primary GitLab application server should handle migrations
   gitlab_rails['auto_migrate'] = false
   ```

   > **Note:** The `redis_master_role['enable']` option is only available as of
   > GitLab 8.14, see [`gitlab_rails.rb`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/files/gitlab-cookbooks/gitlab/libraries/gitlab_rails.rb)
   > to understand which services are automatically disabled via that option.

1. Run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure` to install and configure Redis.

### Configuring the GitLab Application Node

1. The following settings point the GitLab application at the external Redis
   service:

   ```ruby
   redis['enable'] = false

   gitlab_rails['redis_host'] = 'redis.example.com'
   gitlab_rails['redis_port'] = 6379

   # Required if Redis authentication is configured on the Redis node
   gitlab_rails['redis_password'] = 'Redis Password'
   ```

1. Run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure` to configure the application to use the
   external Redis node.

### Using Google Cloud Memorystore

Google Cloud Memorystore [does not support the Redis `CLIENT`
command.](https://cloud.google.com/memorystore/docs/reference/redis-configs#blocked)
By default Sidekiq will attempt to set the `CLIENT` for debugging
purposes. This can be disabled via this config setting:

```ruby
gitlab_rails['redis_enable_client'] = false
```

## Increasing the number of Redis connections beyond the default

By default Redis will only accept 10,000 client connections. If you need
more that 10,000 connections set the 'maxclients' attribute to suite your needs.
Be advised that adjusting the maxclients attribute means that you will also need
to take into account your systems settings for fs.file-max (i.e. "sysctl -w fs.file-max=20000")

```ruby
redis['maxclients'] = 20000
```

## Tuning the TCP stack for Redis

The following settings are to enable a more performant Redis server instance. 'tcp_timeout' is
a value set in seconds that the Redis server waits before terminating an IDLE TCP connection.
The 'tcp_keepalive' is a tunable setting in seconds to TCP ACKs to clients in absence of
communication.

```ruby
redis['tcp_timeout'] = "60"
redis['tcp_keepalive'] = "300"
```

## Running with multiple Redis instances

GitLab includes support for running with separate Redis instances for different persistence classes, currently: cache, queues, and shared_state.

1. Create a dedicated instance for each persistence class as per the instructions in [Setting up a Redis-only server](#setting-up-a-redis-only-server)
1. Set the appropriate variable in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` for each instance you are using:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['redis_cache_instance'] = REDIS_CACHE_URL
   gitlab_rails['redis_queues_instance'] = REDIS_QUEUES_URL
   gitlab_rails['redis_shared_state_instance'] = REDIS_SHARED_STATE_URL
   ```

   **Note**: Redis URLs should be in the format: `redis://:PASSWORD@REDIS_HOST:PORT/2`

   Where:

   - PASSWORD is the plaintext password for the Redis instance
   - REDIS_HOST is the hostname or IP address of the host
   - REDIS_PORT is the port Redis is listening on, the default is 6379

1. Run `gitlab-ctl reconfigure`

## Redis Sentinel

For details on configuring Redis Sentinel, see
<https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/high_availability/redis.html>.

## Setting the Redis Cache instance as an LRU

Using multiple Redis instances allows you to configure Redis as a [Least
Recently Used cache](https://redis.io/topics/lru-cache). Note you should only
do this for the Redis cache class; the Redis queues and shared state cache
should never be configured as an LRU, since they contain data (e.g. Sidekiq
jobs) that is expected to be persistent.

To cap memory usage at 32GB, you can use:

```ruby
redis['maxmemory'] = "32gb"
redis['maxmemory_policy'] = "allkeys-lru"
redis['maxmemory_samples'] = 5
```

## Using a Redis HA setup

See <https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/high_availability/redis.html>.

## Using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)

Redis v3.2.x does NOT support SSL out of the box. However, you can encrypt a
Redis connection using [stunnel](https://redislabs.com/blog/stunnel-secure-redis-ssl/).
AWS ElasticCache also supports Redis over SSL.

## Renamed commands

By default, the `KEYS` command is disabled as a security measure.

If you'd like to obfuscate or disable this command, or other commands, edit the `redis['rename_commands']` setting in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` to look like:

```ruby
redis['rename_commands'] = {
  'KEYS': '',
  'OTHER_COMMAND': 'VALUE'
}
```

- `OTHER_COMMAND` is the command you want to modify
- `VALUE` should be one of:
  1. A new command name.
  1. '', which completely disables the command

To disable this functionality:

1. Set `redis['rename_commands'] = {}` in your `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` file
1. Run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure`

### Limitations

- GitLab does NOT ship with stunnel or other tools to provide encryption
  for the Redis server. However, GitLab does provide client support via
  the `rediss://` (as opposed to `redis://`) URL scheme.

- Redis Sentinel does NOT support SSL yet. If you use Redis Sentinel, do
  not activate client support for SSL. [This pull
  request](https://github.com/antirez/redis/pull/4855) may bring native
  support to Redis 6.0.

### Activating SSL (client settings)

To activate GitLab client support for SSL, do the following:

1. Add the following line to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['redis_ssl'] = true
   ```

1. Run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure` for the changes to take effect.

## SSL certificates

If you are using custom SSL certificates for Redis, be sure to add them
to the [trusted certificates](../settings/ssl.md#install-custom-public-certificates).

## Lazy freeing

Redis 4 introduced [lazy freeing](http://antirez.com/news/93). This can improve performance when freeing large values.

This setting defaults to `false`. To enable it, you can use:

```ruby
redis['lazyfree_lazy_eviction'] = true
redis['lazyfree_lazy_expire'] = true
redis['lazyfree_lazy_server_del'] = true
redis['replica_lazy_flush'] = true
```

## Common Troubleshooting

### x509: certificate signed by unknown authority

This error message suggests that the SSL certificates have not been
properly added to the list of trusted certificates for the server. To
check whether this is an issue:

1. Check Workhorse logs in `/var/log/gitlab/gitlab-workhorse/current`.

1. If you see messages that look like:

   ```plaintext
   2018-11-14_05:52:16.71123 time="2018-11-14T05:52:16Z" level=info msg="redis: dialing" address="redis-server:6379" scheme=rediss
   2018-11-14_05:52:16.74397 time="2018-11-14T05:52:16Z" level=error msg="unknown error" error="keywatcher: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority"
   ```

   The first line should show `rediss` as the scheme with the address
   of the Redis server. The second line indicates the certificate is
   not properly trusted on this server. See the [previous section](#ssl-certificates).

1. Verify that the SSL certificate is working via [these troubleshooting
   steps](ssl.md#custom-certificates-missing-or-skipped).

### NOAUTH Authentication required

A Redis server may require a password sent via an `AUTH` message before
commands are accepted. A `NOAUTH Authentication required` error message
suggests the client is not sending a password. GitLab logs may help
troubleshoot this error:

1. Check Workhorse logs in `/var/log/gitlab/gitlab-workhorse/current`.

1. If you see messages that look like:

   ```plaintext
   2018-11-14_06:18:43.81636 time="2018-11-14T06:18:43Z" level=info msg="redis: dialing" address="redis-server:6379" scheme=rediss
   2018-11-14_06:18:43.86929 time="2018-11-14T06:18:43Z" level=error msg="unknown error" error="keywatcher: pubsub receive: NOAUTH Authentication required."
   ```

1. Check that the Redis client password specified in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` is correct:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['redis_password'] = 'your-password-here'
   ```

1. If you are using the Omnibus-provided Redis server, check that the server has the same password:

   ```ruby
   redis['password'] = 'your-password-here'
   ```

### Redis connection reset (ECONNRESET)

If you see `Redis::ConnectionError: Connection lost (ECONNRESET)` in the
GitLab Rails logs (`/var/log/gitlab-rails/production.log`), this might
indicate that the server is expecting SSL but the client is not
configured to use it.

1. Check that the server is actually listening to the port via SSL.
   For example:

   ```shell
   /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/openssl s_client -connect redis-server:6379
   ```

1. Check `/var/opt/gitlab/gitlab-rails/etc/resque.yml`. You
   should see something like:

   ```yaml
   production:
     url: rediss://:mypassword@redis-server:6379/
   ```

1. If `redis://` is present instead of `rediss://`, the `redis_ssl`
   parameter may not have been configured properly, or the reconfigure
   step may not have been run.

### Connecting to Redis via the CLI

When connecting to Redis for troubleshooting you can use:

- Redis via Unix domain sockets:

  ```shell
  /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/redis-cli -s /var/opt/gitlab/redis/redis.socket
  ```

- Redis via TCP:

  ```shell
  /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/redis-cli -h 127.0.0.1 -p 6379
  ```

- Password to authenticate to Redis if required:

  ```shell
  /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/redis-cli -h 127.0.0.1 -p 6379 -a <password>
  ```

Commit message:

Generate cable.yml for ActionCable
Defaults to the same default Redis instance but also allows specifying
a separate Redis instance

doc/settings/redis.md, after:

# Configuring Redis

## Running Redis on the application server

### Using an alternate local Redis Instance

Omnibus GitLab provides an instance of Redis by default. Administrators who
wish to point the GitLab application at their own ***locally*** running Redis
instance should make the following changes in `gitlab.rb`. Run
`gitlab-ctl reconfigure` for the changes to take effect.

```ruby
redis['enable'] = false

# Redis via TCP
gitlab_rails['redis_host'] = '127.0.0.1'
gitlab_rails['redis_port'] = 6379

# OR Redis via Unix domain sockets
gitlab_rails['redis_socket'] = '/tmp/redis.sock' # defaults to /var/opt/gitlab/redis/redis.socket

# Password to Authenticate to alternate local Redis if required
gitlab_rails['redis_password'] = 'Redis Password'
```

### Making a bundled Redis instance reachable via TCP

Use the following settings if you want to make one of the Redis instances
managed by Omnibus GitLab reachable via TCP.

```ruby
redis['port'] = 6379
redis['bind'] = '127.0.0.1'
```

## Setting up a Redis-only server

If you'd like to setup a separate Redis server (e.g. in the case of scaling
issues) for use with GitLab you can do so using GitLab Omnibus.

### Setting up the Redis Node

> **Note:** Redis does not require authentication by default. See
> [Redis Security](https://redis.io/topics/security) documentation for more
> information. We recommend using a combination of a Redis password and tight
> firewall rules to secure your Redis service.

1. Download/install GitLab Omnibus using **steps 1 and 2** from
   [GitLab downloads](https://about.gitlab.com/install/). Do not complete other
   steps on the download page.
1. Create/edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and use the following configuration.

   ```ruby
   # Disable all services except Redis
   redis_master_role['enable'] = true

   # Redis configuration
   redis['port'] = 6379
   redis['bind'] = '0.0.0.0'

   # If you wish to use Redis authentication (recommended)
   redis['password'] = 'Redis Password'

   # Disable automatic database migrations
   #   Only the primary GitLab application server should handle migrations
   gitlab_rails['auto_migrate'] = false
   ```

   > **Note:** The `redis_master_role['enable']` option is only available as of
   > GitLab 8.14, see [`gitlab_rails.rb`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/files/gitlab-cookbooks/gitlab/libraries/gitlab_rails.rb)
   > to understand which services are automatically disabled via that option.

1. Run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure` to install and configure Redis.

### Configuring the GitLab Application Node

1. The following settings point the GitLab application at the external Redis
   service:

   ```ruby
   redis['enable'] = false

   gitlab_rails['redis_host'] = 'redis.example.com'
   gitlab_rails['redis_port'] = 6379

   # Required if Redis authentication is configured on the Redis node
   gitlab_rails['redis_password'] = 'Redis Password'
   ```

1. Run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure` to configure the application to use the
   external Redis node.

### Using Google Cloud Memorystore

Google Cloud Memorystore [does not support the Redis `CLIENT`
command.](https://cloud.google.com/memorystore/docs/reference/redis-configs#blocked)
By default Sidekiq will attempt to set the `CLIENT` for debugging
purposes. This can be disabled via this config setting:

```ruby
gitlab_rails['redis_enable_client'] = false
```

## Increasing the number of Redis connections beyond the default

By default Redis will only accept 10,000 client connections. If you need
more that 10,000 connections set the 'maxclients' attribute to suite your needs.
Be advised that adjusting the maxclients attribute means that you will also need
to take into account your systems settings for fs.file-max (i.e. "sysctl -w fs.file-max=20000")

```ruby
redis['maxclients'] = 20000
```

## Tuning the TCP stack for Redis

The following settings are to enable a more performant Redis server instance. 'tcp_timeout' is
a value set in seconds that the Redis server waits before terminating an IDLE TCP connection.
The 'tcp_keepalive' is a tunable setting in seconds to TCP ACKs to clients in absence of
communication.

```ruby
redis['tcp_timeout'] = "60"
redis['tcp_keepalive'] = "300"
```

## Running with multiple Redis instances

GitLab includes support for running with separate Redis instances for different persistence classes, currently: cache, queues, shared_state and actioncable.

| Instance     | Purpose                                         |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| cache        | Store cached data                               |
| queues       | Store Sidekiq background jobs                   |
| shared_state | Store session-related and other persistent data |
| actioncable  | Pub/Sub queue backend for ActionCable           |

1. Create a dedicated instance for each persistence class as per the instructions in [Setting up a Redis-only server](#setting-up-a-redis-only-server)
1. Set the appropriate variable in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` for each instance you are using:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['redis_cache_instance'] = REDIS_CACHE_URL
   gitlab_rails['redis_queues_instance'] = REDIS_QUEUES_URL
   gitlab_rails['redis_shared_state_instance'] = REDIS_SHARED_STATE_URL
   gitlab_rails['redis_actioncable_instance'] = REDIS_ACTIONCABLE_URL
   ```

   **Note**: Redis URLs should be in the format: `redis://:PASSWORD@REDIS_HOST:PORT/2`

   Where:

   - PASSWORD is the plaintext password for the Redis instance
   - REDIS_HOST is the hostname or IP address of the host
   - REDIS_PORT is the port Redis is listening on, the default is 6379

1. Run `gitlab-ctl reconfigure`

## Redis Sentinel

For details on configuring Redis Sentinel, see
<https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/high_availability/redis.html>.

## Setting the Redis Cache instance as an LRU

Using multiple Redis instances allows you to configure Redis as a [Least
Recently Used cache](https://redis.io/topics/lru-cache). Note you should only
do this for the Redis cache instance; the Redis queues and shared state instances
should never be configured as an LRU, since they contain data (e.g. Sidekiq
jobs) that is expected to be persistent.

To cap memory usage at 32GB, you can use:

```ruby
redis['maxmemory'] = "32gb"
redis['maxmemory_policy'] = "allkeys-lru"
redis['maxmemory_samples'] = 5
```

## Using a Redis HA setup

See <https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/high_availability/redis.html>.

## Using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)

Redis v3.2.x does NOT support SSL out of the box. However, you can encrypt a
Redis connection using [stunnel](https://redislabs.com/blog/stunnel-secure-redis-ssl/).
AWS ElasticCache also supports Redis over SSL.

## Renamed commands

By default, the `KEYS` command is disabled as a security measure.

If you'd like to obfuscate or disable this command, or other commands, edit the `redis['rename_commands']` setting in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` to look like:

```ruby
redis['rename_commands'] = {
  'KEYS': '',
  'OTHER_COMMAND': 'VALUE'
}
```

- `OTHER_COMMAND` is the command you want to modify
- `VALUE` should be one of:
  1. A new command name.
  1. '', which completely disables the command

To disable this functionality:

1. Set `redis['rename_commands'] = {}` in your `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` file
1. Run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure`

### Limitations

- GitLab does NOT ship with stunnel or other tools to provide encryption
  for the Redis server. However, GitLab does provide client support via
  the `rediss://` (as opposed to `redis://`) URL scheme.

- Redis Sentinel does NOT support SSL yet. If you use Redis Sentinel, do
  not activate client support for SSL. [This pull
  request](https://github.com/antirez/redis/pull/4855) may bring native
  support to Redis 6.0.

### Activating SSL (client settings)

To activate GitLab client support for SSL, do the following:

1. Add the following line to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['redis_ssl'] = true
   ```

1. Run `sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure` for the changes to take effect.

## SSL certificates

If you are using custom SSL certificates for Redis, be sure to add them
to the [trusted certificates](../settings/ssl.md#install-custom-public-certificates).

## Lazy freeing

Redis 4 introduced [lazy freeing](http://antirez.com/news/93). This can improve performance when freeing large values.

This setting defaults to `false`. To enable it, you can use:

```ruby
redis['lazyfree_lazy_eviction'] = true
redis['lazyfree_lazy_expire'] = true
redis['lazyfree_lazy_server_del'] = true
redis['replica_lazy_flush'] = true
```

## Common Troubleshooting

### x509: certificate signed by unknown authority

This error message suggests that the SSL certificates have not been
properly added to the list of trusted certificates for the server. To
check whether this is an issue:

1. Check Workhorse logs in `/var/log/gitlab/gitlab-workhorse/current`.

1. If you see messages that look like:

   ```plaintext
   2018-11-14_05:52:16.71123 time="2018-11-14T05:52:16Z" level=info msg="redis: dialing" address="redis-server:6379" scheme=rediss
   2018-11-14_05:52:16.74397 time="2018-11-14T05:52:16Z" level=error msg="unknown error" error="keywatcher: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority"
   ```

   The first line should show `rediss` as the scheme with the address
   of the Redis server. The second line indicates the certificate is
   not properly trusted on this server. See the [previous section](#ssl-certificates).

1. Verify that the SSL certificate is working via [these troubleshooting
   steps](ssl.md#custom-certificates-missing-or-skipped).

### NOAUTH Authentication required

A Redis server may require a password sent via an `AUTH` message before
commands are accepted. A `NOAUTH Authentication required` error message
suggests the client is not sending a password. GitLab logs may help
troubleshoot this error:

1. Check Workhorse logs in `/var/log/gitlab/gitlab-workhorse/current`.

1. If you see messages that look like:

   ```plaintext
   2018-11-14_06:18:43.81636 time="2018-11-14T06:18:43Z" level=info msg="redis: dialing" address="redis-server:6379" scheme=rediss
   2018-11-14_06:18:43.86929 time="2018-11-14T06:18:43Z" level=error msg="unknown error" error="keywatcher: pubsub receive: NOAUTH Authentication required."
   ```

1. Check that the Redis client password specified in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` is correct:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['redis_password'] = 'your-password-here'
   ```

1. If you are using the Omnibus-provided Redis server, check that the server has the same password:

   ```ruby
   redis['password'] = 'your-password-here'
   ```

### Redis connection reset (ECONNRESET)

If you see `Redis::ConnectionError: Connection lost (ECONNRESET)` in the
GitLab Rails logs (`/var/log/gitlab-rails/production.log`), this might
indicate that the server is expecting SSL but the client is not
configured to use it.

1. Check that the server is actually listening to the port via SSL.
   For example:

   ```shell
   /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/openssl s_client -connect redis-server:6379
   ```

1. Check `/var/opt/gitlab/gitlab-rails/etc/resque.yml`. You
   should see something like:

   ```yaml
   production:
     url: rediss://:mypassword@redis-server:6379/
   ```

1. If `redis://` is present instead of `rediss://`, the `redis_ssl`
   parameter may not have been configured properly, or the reconfigure
   step may not have been run.

### Connecting to Redis via the CLI

When connecting to Redis for troubleshooting you can use:

- Redis via Unix domain sockets:

  ```shell
  /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/redis-cli -s /var/opt/gitlab/redis/redis.socket
  ```

- Redis via TCP:

  ```shell
  /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/redis-cli -h 127.0.0.1 -p 6379
  ```

- Password to authenticate to Redis if required:

  ```shell
  /opt/gitlab/embedded/bin/redis-cli -h 127.0.0.1 -p 6379 -a <password>
  ```
